---
title: Workshop 2
author: Scott
date: '2018-11-30'
slug: workshop-2
categories: []
tags: []
image:
  caption: ''
  focal_point: ''
---

# Sample and Procedures

## What should you produce?

1. A written description of your sample (including the source and cost of subjects), research procedures (randomization, manipulations, assessment procedures, etc.), and data storage/management procedures. 
2. Your description of subjects should provide a discussion of how your subjects will be recruited and selected (or were recruited and selected if using existing data). This includes a statement of inclusion and exclusion criteria. At this point, just guess at the number of subjects. We’ll do a formal analysis later.
3. You should provide a discussion of your research procedures. What are you going to do to collect data? What kinds of manipulations? What is the timing of your assessments and data collection? How will your collect the data (online or in person)? Be sure that your design addresses the limitations of previous research. 
4. You should discuss how you are going to deal with diversity or if it is existing data, what diversity you have and how it could be better.  
5. You should state how you are going to store your data and how you are going to manage it so that your data integrity is intact and that all procedures are replicable. 	

## Steps to take

1. Identify possible sources of subjects, including strengths and limitations of each. 
2. Investigate possible inclusion and exclusion criteria (you'll likely need to review some articles in your area). What have others used? Is there a problem with the past exclusion criteria? Can you address this? What limitations/threats to validity are relevant?
3. Discuss how you are going to address issues of diversity in your sample.
4. Write a paragraph describing your sample, recruitment methods, inclusion/exclusion criteria, and guess at the number of subjects.
5. Find 2-3 articles that used procedures similar to yours. Evaluate the procedures. Evalute the procedures with respect to construct validity? Do they provide enough detail to replicate what they did? Why or why not?
6. Provide a description of your procedures. What will subjects do when you interact with them? How often do you interact with them? What manipulations are you using? How many times do you assess them? If you’re providing treatment, describe what you’re going to do and how you will ensure fidelity. Describe any equipment you’re going to use and provide details about it (e.g., EEG machines, etc.)

## Parts of the Workshop

Complete the relevant steps prior to the due date. See the [Course Schedule](/classes/course-schedule) for the due dates.

* **Workshop 2a**: Steps 1-4
* **Worskhop 2b**: Steps 5 and 6

## Feedback to Colleagues

These are suggestions -- they aren't the only the things you should consider when evaluating your colleagues' work. Be thoughtful and remember to provide *actionable* feedback.

1. Have your colleagues provided sufficient detail about the subjects in the study that you understand what the plan is (or was in the case of existing data)?
2. Are inclusion and exclusion criteria described? Any ambiguities? What other feedback do you have?
3. Are the research procedures described in sufficient detail that you could replicate them? Do you understand when subjects are assessed (timing, frequency)?
4. Does the proposal consider diversity?
5. Are the plans for storing and managing (i.e., cleaning) data consistent with transparency and reproducibility? What could they do better? 

## What will you turn into to me?

Turn in your completed description of your sample and procedures that takes into account your colleagues' feedback. You should also include the comments your received from colleagues as well your brief summary of how you dealt with their feedback. 
